[new:AlexSchroeder:2012-03-20 22:04 UTC]
BozhidarBatsov is apparently [http://batsov.com/articles/2012/03/20/die-emacswiki/ very frustrated with Emacs Wiki].
He seems to think that we should start over – use new software, add moderators, guidelines, and sorts of fancy stuff.
My answer is the same [MissionRant as it was back in 2008]…

One of his ideas I actually agree with. "Submit documentation only to the official project pages." Absolutely. :)

Some ideas I am luke warm about: "package something on Marmalade…" Sure, why not? I have never used Marmalade, but I encourage you to improve the tools you use.
There's also "don’t respond to any bug requests regarding modified copies of your sources distributed via EmacsWiki." I also don't want to encourage bug reports on the wiki. Use the facilities built into Emacs to report bugs. But almost all of you know that.

But other ideas?

"Drop the current format of the wiki - use something standard like !MediaWiki instead of !OddMuse." How is reformatting the pages going to improve them?

"Drop all the articles about Emacs extensions." Just delete them? Are you at least going to rewrite them and move them to the appropriate project pages out there?
Or are you just going to delete them? Taking away and not giving back?

"Drop all the extensions hosted there." Some of the old code has no other home. Some of the old code is here for the poor sods stuck with Emacs 20. Are you going to package them for ELPA or Marmalade or whatever you are going to suggest instead?

Some of you – like DrewAdams – keep their packages on the wiki. For those packages, I don't see any alternative. Are you going to maintain his software? Fix his bugs? Develop his features? Unless you are, I guess you can try and fork his stuff and keep it on whatever other system you want. But please don't suggest taking something away without giving something in return.

"Assemble a team of moderators." Indeed. //Moderators! Where have you been hiding for the last ten years!// Are you volunteering? I'm a bit wary regarding your deletionist tendencies. But perhaps you'd like to start with a new Table of Contents and new top-down menus where only the pages you personally vetted and checked are listed. That would be an _awesome_ thing to do! Of course, there's no need to delete anything in order for you to do this. Just arrange the stuff you like and do it.

In fact, in order to do it, just do it.

"Accept only articles about general Emacs usage and Emacs Lisp programming." How is that going to work – more deleting? I don't know… I don't think you understand where the value of Emacs Wiki comes from. Perhaps you should write a book about Emacs? Collect a team of authors and editors and deletionists, take a copy of the wiki, and just do it _right_.

Also, less hyperbole when posting… :P

[new]
It's like the rants we sometimes hear about making emacs more modern, use python as extension language, etc. It would be nice to rewrite everything, but actually it's a lot of a work which no one really wants to do.

Emacswiki is a great resource. It's not perfect, but it's the best we have. A gradual improvement is much more feasible than throwing away everything and start from scratch, and a gradual improvement is possible, because anyone can edit the wiki and discuss the proposed changes here with others. -- anon
