Within the blurb at http://www.cons.org/ it says 'remember, you should
avoid consing at all cost', yet TheLittleSchemer states 'use cons to
build lists' as the Second Commandment of recursive programming. When
is using cons inappropriate?

== Consing increases the amount of garbage collection ==
When you cons, you are allocating storage -- conceptually, two
pointers which point respectively to the car and the cdr of the
cons. Once you no longer need this storage (for example, once you
leave the scope of the function where you used a temporary list), it
will be automatically reclaimed for future use by the garbage
collector.  This won't happen immediately, but once the system decides
it needs to reclaim some space.  This garbage collecting takes time, so
if you're in a section of code which will be exected very often, it
can be better to avoid consing new data, and instead reuse storage
that has already been allocated.  You reuse storage by using
destructive operations such as setq and setcdr.  Often lisp primitives
which operate on lists have a destructive version that avoids consing:
for example reverse has a destructive cousin named nreverse that
modifies its argument instead of consing up a new list.

Avoiding consing is rarely worth it nowadays.  For one thing,
computers are so fast that you barely notice the time spent during
garbage collection (this wasn't the case 30 years ago, when the first
emacs implementations were around).  Secondly, modern garbage
collectors are very efficient in reclaiming space from ephemeral
allocation: they use "generational" techniques where the youngest
generation of emphemeral data can be reclaimed cheaply.  Emacs's garbage
collector still uses old mark-and-sweep techniques, so this doesn't
apply to Emacs Lisp, but it does to more modern Common Lisp and Scheme
implementations.

By the way, in my opinion you should use <tt>list</tt> to build a
list, not <tt>cons</tt>. Cons is a constructor for conses, and lists
just happen to be a special form of conses.  However, some programming
textbooks don't agree.  -- EricMarsden

----
CategoryCode, [[EmacsMemoryDebugging]]
