I am working with emacs25 25.2+1-6 amd64, on Linux Mint.
my .emacs file:

(custom-set-variables
 ;; custom-set-variables was added by Custom.
 ;; If you edit it by hand, you could mess it up, so be careful.
 ;; Your init file should contain only one such instance.
 ;; If there is more than one, they won't work right.
 '(safe-local-variable-values

(custom-set-faces
 ;; custom-set-faces was added by Custom.
 ;; If you edit it by hand, you could mess it up, so be careful.
 ;; Your init file should contain only one such instance.
 ;; If there is more than one, they won't work right.
 '(default ((t (:inherit nil :stipple nil :background "#ffffff" :foreground "#221f1e" :inverse-video ni$

(setq x-select-enable-clipboard t)
(setq interprogram-paste-function 'x-cut-buffer-or-selection-value)

(add-hook 'before-save-hook 'time-stamp)

The updating is not working. Do you see any mistakes; or do you have any suggestions?

-- [http://www.worddoer.com edhe] 2020-10-21 15:37 UTC


----

I have previously---in about 1993---converted the time-stamp functionality written by Stephen Gildea to "file-stamp", because I had a large number of files where some files had been changed over a period of years or months, and I needed to keep track of them.  So then in each file I placed the following two templates:
   Time-stamp: <>
 and 
   File-stamp: <>

I also had implemented a feature to copy these lines, below these, in the header to provide a history of the time and name of the file.  I was using GNU/Linux, and had frequently been given to installing GNU/Linus on different machines; therefore I needed to keep track of everything possible about the history of the tile.  

Over time I have lost track of the files that provided these functions, and the functionality in timestamp.el is sufficiently more complicated that I am unable to repeat my own trickery.

This was a very important feature for me, in writing a publication that consisted of over 20 files, with a (to me) complicated history of revisions and corrections.  

Two steps are involved: (1) copy timestamp.el to filestamp.el, and edit, removing unneeded parts; and (2) incorporating a new function---or writing a file-save hook to copy the two stamps, move down a few lines (or to the end), pasting the lines, and modifying them to preclude their being changed by the functions.  

It worked quite well.  

May I request suggestions?

Alan Davis

-- Anonymous 2022-08-01 02:32 UTC

