EsvMode is a simple interface to the ESV API, so you can get passages
from the English Standard Version of the Bible.  CharlesSebold wrote it.

Current version of the code just gets the text and displays it.  I'm
still trying to figure out this whole XML thing.  Requires at least
Emacs 21 and the XmlParser and UrlPackage libraries (should work with Emacs 22 out of the box).

Download the latest uploaded version at Lisp:esv.el if you care.

To use this, you must customize or otherwise set the variable
ESV-KEY!  Otherwise by default the ESV API handlers will not call out
to the ESV website.  At the minimum, do this:

  M-x customize-variable RET esv-key RET

And set it to "Non-keyed usage" (IP) if you're just going to use this
for personal use in Emacs.  Details of the ESV license for this
information can be found at http://www.esvapi.org/ and I recommend
looking it over.

This package consists of two functionalities:  one is to recognize
passages in your buffers and make it easy for you to look them up in
the ESV (that's esv-mode), and one is a way to retrieve ESV passages
using their web API and display them internally in Emacs.  This can
be used to get individual passages (which you can specify or retrieve
from your text using esv-mode), or you can go through a daily reading
plan (great for those of us who live in Emacs).

To use this package, you can save this file somewhere in your
load-path and put the following in your .emacs at a minimum:

<pre>
  (require 'esv)
  ; the following keys should be mapped to whatever works best for
  ; you:
  ; C-c e looks up a passage and displays it in a pop-up window
  (define-key global-map [(control c) ?e] 'esv-passage)
  ; C-c i inserts an ESV passage in plain-text format at point
  (define-key global-map [(control c) ?i] 'esv-insert-passage)
  ; If you don't want to use customize, you can set this for casual
  ; usage (but read http://www.esvapi.org/ for license):
  (setq esv-key "IP")
</pre>

To make esv-mode work whenever text-mode does, you can put this in
your .emacs as well:

<pre>
  (add-hook 'text-mode-hook 'turn-on-esv-mode)
</pre>

If you only want it in certain files, you can add it to the first
line or the local variables (see (info "(emacs)File Variables") for
more information):

<pre>
    -*- mode: text; mode: esv; -*-
</pre>

or

<pre>
    Local Variables:
    mode: esv;
    End:
</pre>

However, note the warning about imposing your individual preferences
on files at the end of the info node above.

1.11 includes reading plan support (esv-reading-plan, use prefix
argument to specify date), plain text insertion which is good for email
(esv-insert-passage), and more prep work for better support in the
future.

1.16 makes it possible to run esv-mode, a minor mode that makes Bible
references clickable, and can be configured to either display them
internally or externally via web-browser (or other function of your
choice).

1.18 adds documentation and fixes a customization problem.

1.19 fixed a problem with the regexp that finds passages (but not every
problem) and attempts to fix the multiline problem too

1.20 wasn't really a change (I pulled out the CVS ID, I've switched to git)

1.21 adds esv-region()

1.22 adds yank if mouse-2 happens in a non-clickable region

1.23 adds new reading plans from Crossway
