MeatBall:FridemarPache

Hi Fridemar, and welcome to the Emacs Wiki. -- AlexSchroeder

Looking for Wikimode+XEmacs I found this page. As I'm new to X/Emacs
and I want a powerful local Wiki on my PC (with Internetbrowser). I
consider to delve into the holy grail of X/Emacs (possibly for the
rest of my life ;-).  I need some encouragement to make the
transition. As I need a local Wiki very urgently to work with, I'm a
bit anxious to get *prematurely* involved into a deep study of X/Emacs
how to install the wiki-mode. Which stable binary for W98 do you
recommend? Where can I download the complete newest wiki-module?  Is
the installation well supported (such that we can use it straight from
the shoulder, even if we aren't familiar with the built-in programming
language yet.)  Has the community a helpful hand for a newcomer, who
is humble enough, to show his anxiety. -- FridemarPache

If all you need is a local wiki, consider downloading some Windows
software.  I know that at work one of my colleagues found a standalone
executable which acts as a standalone wiki web server.  That was quite
some time ago.  Good luck in hunting it down. -- AlexSchroeder

Thank you for your light-speed answer. I'm glad that you are not angry 
with me, having plunged into the first best page I found. Thank you for
relocating and answering. Yes I had a clone of a Perl Wiki, running under my
local host. But that's not my problem. I want an extensible wiki, imbedded
in a rich environment and that is Emacs or XEmacs.
I found your contribution:
http://www.geocities.com/kensanata/elisp/wiki.el.txt would you recommend Emacs20 or XEmacs21 as binary for now.
Lisp is a very nice looking language. I consider to learn it as soon as
time allows. My question is focussed on " Could I start with it, without
getting lost in the manuals, when incorporating your Wiki-mode module".  Fridemar

Emacs is a big thing if all you want is a local wiki.  If you want a rich environment, Emacs is certainly a possible answer -- for certain definitions of "rich".  If you want to extend Emacs and wiki mode using Lisp, then it is a good environment.  I suggest you start with either XEmacs or Emacs, and stick to it for a while.  Personally, I use Emacs 21.1 on Linux and Emacs 20.7 on Windows. -- as

The need for a X/Emacs like environment stems from ideas round about
MeatBall:WikiWeaving, where I left a backlink to this page.
Thank you.  Fridemar

----
CategoryHomepage
