Gdb User Interface

By NickRoberts

This mode acts as a graphical user interface to GDB and is part of the
recently released Emacs 22 (04-06-07).  You can interact with
GDB through the GUD buffer in the usual way, but there are also further
buffers which control the execution and describe the state of your program.
It separates the input/output of your program from that of GDB, if
required, and watches expressions in the speedbar.  It also uses features of
Emacs 21 such as the fringe/display margin for breakpoints, and the toolbar
(see the GDB Graphical Interface section in the EmacsManual).

By default, M-x gdb will start the debugger. However, if you have customised
gud-gdb-command-name, then start it with M-x gdba.

This file has evolved from gdba.el that was included with GDB 5.0 andwritten
by Tom Lord and Jim Kingdon.  It uses GDB's annotation interface.
You don't need to know about annotations to use this mode as a debugger,
but if you are interested developing the mode itself, then see the
Annotations section in the GDB info manual.

GDB developers plan to make the annotation interface obsolete.  A new
interface called GDB/MI (machine interface) has been designed to replace it.
Some GDB/MI commands are used in this file through the CLI command
'interpreter mi <mi-command>'.  To help with the process of fully migrating
Emacs from annotations to GDB/MI, there is an experimental package called
gdb-mi in the [http://tromey.com/elpa/ Emacs Lisp Package Archive].  It
comprises of modified gud.el and a file called gdb-mi.el which replaces
gdb-ui.el.  When installed, this overrides the current files and invoking
M-x gdb will use GDB/MI directly (starts with "gdb -i=mi").  When deleted
('d' followed by 'x' in Package Menu mode), the files are deleted and old
functionality restored.  This provides a convenient way to review the
current status/contribute to its improvement.  For someone who just wants to
use GDB, however, the current mode in Emacs 22 is a much better option.

There is also a file, also called gdb-mi.el, a version of which is included
the GDB distribution.  This will probably only work with versions
distributed with GDB 6.5 or later.  Unlike the version in ELPA it works on
top of gdb-ui.el and you can only start it with M-x gdbmi.

This mode SHOULD WORK WITH GDB 5.0 onwards but you will NEED GDB 6.0 onwards
to use watch expressions.  It WORKS BEST WITH GDB 6.4, or later, where watch
expressions will update more quickly.

This [http://www.inet.net.nz/~nickrob/gdb-ui.png screenshot] shows what it
looks like debugging Emacs.
 
----
CategoryDebug
CategoryModes
ProgrammingModes
GrandUnifiedDebugger
