'''Note:''' The information on this page is for older Emacs versions than 23.2.  Starting with Emacs 23.2, `M-g g' is bound to goto-line. 

(Perhaps this page should be cleaned up a bit.)

I think goto-line is much more used than facemenu-* and M-g should be bound to M-x goto-line (as does Xemacs, BTW). I have never seen a newbie want to run a facemenu- function.  Heck, even somewhat experienced users like me have no idea what those do.  But lots of newbies ask how to goto-line, and are disappointed when they find no key. -- DeepakGoel

: I agree! M-x goto-line should be bound to M-g.  Also, I use iswitchb from time-to-time, but I dont think it should be default.  Same for icomplete-mode, which DOES change normal behaviour, in some cases, it can happen that it completes to:  some-word--, which is not really good.
: But I do agree that auto-compression-mode should be on by default.  Having ibuffer instead of buffer-menu would be a great improvment too!
: -- MarioLang

: I disagree. Binding `goto-line' to a key by default is fine, of course, but it shouldn't be M-g. I admit that the facemenu-.* stuff is mostly interesting in combination with `enriched-mode' and that it is probably not widely used. Emacs does not provide much word processor capabilities yet, but I hope that it will do so in the future. Default bindings are also important for rebinding them to conceptually similar commands in major modes. So if a mode provides some word processor-like functionality, M-g is the natural binding for commands that change the appearance of some text portions. As I said, there are not many such modes, but there will be, I am sure. (In fact I am working on one). --OliverScholz


:: While I do see your point, I had a question: Why is M-g "natural" for text-appearance stuff?  I didn't follow the reasoning there.  Are other similar keycombos as M-g bound to text-appearance stuff?  I am sure I am missing something here.  -- DeepakGoel

::: Well, it's already there. :-) :-) I meant 'natural' in the sense that it is _currently_ the place where such stuff should go. If you want M-g, because it is mnemonic for `goto-line', then another keybinding for the facemenu stuff would be o.k. by me, provided that it is a top level one. It only occurred to me that you were about to discard a keybinding for `facemenu-.*' entirely. -- OliverScholz

See also PopularOptions, LineCommands.

----
CategoryDotEmacs
CategoryEditing
