Group Parameters store information per group or topic (see TopicMode).
You can edit them via `G p' or better via `G c', or you can set them
yourself in your init file.

For beginners, I suggest to use `G c' to specify group parameters.
These are stored in your ~/.newsrc.eld file, together with lots of other information.
In order to keep group parameters with the rest of your Gnus configuration, I suggest
you put them into your ~/.gnus file.

Here are the variables to set:

; gnus-parameters: Specify groups, and all the group parameters you want.
; gnus-parameter-to-address-alist: An alist of groups and to-address values for closed mailing lists.  This is the to-address parameter.
; gnus-parameter-to-list-alist: An alist of groups and to-list values for open mailing lists.  This is the to-list parameter.
; gnus-auto-expirable-newsgroups: A regexp for all the groups where read articles are automatically marked as expirable.  This is the auto-expire parameter.
; gnus-total-expirable-newsgroups: A regexp for all the groups where all articles are automatically marked as expirable, wether read or not (this group work just like a newsgroup, then).  This is the total-expire parameter.

You can read about the effects of each parameter in the Gnus manual
node "Group Parameters".

Here is a simple example for setting up mailing lists:

    (setq gnus-parameter-to-list-alist
          '(("mail.emacs.bbdb" . "bbdb-info@lists.sourceforge.net")
            ("mail.emacs.bidi" . "emacs-bidi@gnu.org")
            ("mail.emacs.devel" . "emacs-devel@gnu.org")))

And here is how to specify which mailing lists should act just like
newsgroups -- articles just expire, whether I read them or not.

    (setq gnus-total-expirable-newsgroups
          (regexp-opt '("mail.emacs.devel"
                        "mail.emacs.sent"
                        "mail.news.sent"
                        "mail.xemacs.design"
                        "mail.frieden.jetzt"
                        "mail.spam.duplicates"
                        "mail.spam.filtered"
                        "mail.baeckeranlage")))

----
CategoryGnus

