There are no income restrictions such as those imposed by Social Security and most are tax free since they do not involve additional features such as an attached annuity. They also do not affect your social security benefits nor your Medicare entitlements. Some companies that sell large ticket items or services, like annuities or insurance products, may try to suggest using a reverse mortgage as a way fund these purchases. When the additional cost of the reverse mortgage is factored into the purchase, it ends up costing the homeowner much more than the benefit provided by the product or service. Reverse Mortgage Disadvantages, Dangers, and Myths [url=http://productprocessdevelopment.com]reverse mortgages[/url] There are two significant changes that might impact a senior's ability to get a beneficial reverse mortgage in the future. The first change is to lenders' ability to screen applicants. Lenders can now increase their underwriting efforts to help them determine whether borrowers are likely to pay their property taxes, homeowners insurance, and maintain their home. Borrowers who pose a large risk can be denied or given certain terms to lessen the risk of the loan. To further protect seniors, borrowers are also required to complete housing counseling in order to qualify for a reverse mortgage. During this session, counselors will discuss the senior's options, the loan process and what is expected of them after closing the loan. The fact is there is no shortage of information available. Seniors simply need to take their time evaluating their finances and educating themselves before making such a huge financial commitment. Both the upfront expense of a reverse mortgage (loan origination fee) and the interest accrued over the life of the reverse mortgage are added to your reverse mortgage balance. So you dont actually pay these items. The IRS states that these expenses since they are not actually paid cannot be deducted until the reverse mortgage matures. This is the case when you sell your home or used up all equity. 
