I started using Emacs sometime in 1997.  Before that I was a strong
Vim proponent (mainly because of its extended undo feature).  I
changed over after I saw my <nowiki>PhD</nowiki> supervisor make light
work of indenting a C program in Emacs by simply riding his TAB key (I
was just learning C at the time).  Since then I've learned a number of
new programming languages (being drawn inexplicably from pure
mathematics into computer science) and have found Emacs to be a great
help in wrestling with each one of them.

At some stage a friend introduced me to Emacs Lisp and I've never
looked back.  Below is a collection Emacs Lisp packages that I've
produced and which you may find useful.  They've been moved here
because my old homepage and its server are a little flaky and some
people were having trouble downloading.  I would add my dot emacs file
but its way too big -- some 4582 lines to date:-).

(All packages contain detailed usage and installation instructions).


Lisp:color-browser.el: 

: Provides a tool for developing Emacs ColorTheme's

: Designing a good (or even good enough) color theme for Emacs can be
  extremely time consuming, since we typically have to consider
  hundreds of colors, hundreds of faces, and a number variations in
  weight, slant and size.  The `color-theme' package takes a community
  based approach to this problem: investing lots of time and effort is
  worthwhile if everybody gets to share the results.  Unfortunately,
  good quality color themes are still a little thin on the ground.

: This package provides a tool that can (hopefully) aid in the
  production of quality color themes.  Basically it allows the user to

: 1. Develop sets of colors (palettes) that work well together;

: 2. Use those palettes to quickly select and set the properties of
  key face groups, and hence develop themes;

: 3. Save and manipulate themes and palettes under development.


Lisp:plsql.el: 

: Provides a major mode PlsqlMode for writing PL/SQL
  code.  This `plsql-mode' is an extension of `sql-mode' and uses that
  mode to provide keyword fontification, symbol-tables, and interaction
  with the database.  In addition to fixing some bugs this mode provides
  the following:

: 1. Fast and sophisticated indentation function `plsql-indent'
  (normally bound to TAB) which can help to present (and maintain)
  complex code in a readable form.

: 2. Imenu support which allows you to jump to specific modules using
  either the "Contents" menu or speedbar.

: 3. Align support which allows you to automatically "beautify" code
  as you write by aligning certain constructs e.g. `align-current'
  will align all =, :=, and => tokens in the current paragraph.
  XEmacs users may have to get a copy of the align package to use
  this feature.


Lisp:tidy.el: 

: Provides a simple interface to the [http://tidy.sourceforge.net HTML Tidy
  program] -- a free utility that can fix common errors in your mark-up and
  clean up sloppy editing automatically. Includes facillity to clean markup
  on demand and sophisticated menu and configuration file support for Tidy's
  many options.


Lisp:mirror.el: 

: Provides a facility to update a (possibly remote) copy of the current
  buffer either automatically (by setting mirror-update-on-save) or on
  demand (via the function mirror-update-this-file).  Just how this
  happens is determined by a series of buffer local variables. Since it
  is very lightweight and makes few assumptions about remote files and
  hosts it can handle certain pathological situations that AngeFtp or
  TrampMode struggle with.


Lisp:alt-font-menu.el: 

: Automatically generate a menu of available fonts (normally bound to
  S-mouse-1) constrained by personal preferences. Requires at least GNU
  Emacs 21.1 and probably wont work on XEmacs.


Lisp:find-library.el: 

: A real fast way to track down library files in your load-path
  (i.e. with completion).  Basically I found NSFs fff.el a little buggy
  and TMs find-library.el way to slow. This is a quick hack that uses
  Gareth Rees's read-library.el package. This all of course assumes you
  are only interested in files in your load-path:-)


Lisp:mouse-drag-fix.el: 

: Fixes bugs/anomalies in the mouse-drag-drag function that occur whenever
  mouse leaves the frame or window during a drag.  Somewhat less usefully
  since the advent of the wheel mouse:-)


Lisp:title-time.el: 

: Just like display-time except that time, date, mail and appointment
  notification are presented in the title-bar rather than the
  mode-line. This is useful if your mode-line gets a bit
  crowded. Implemented by simply moving the string generated by
  display-time from the model-line to the title-bar. (This should really
  be a code snippet -- Kal)


Lisp:swbuff-x.el: 

: A few modifications to David Ponce's most excellent swbuff package. See
  the code for details.


Lisp:timeclock-x.el: 

: A number of extensions and modifications to JohnWiegley's most
  excellent timeclock.el package. See code for details.

----


: Welcome to the wiki! -- AlexSchroeder

: While there's a preference for taking out nifty things from your configuration files and putting them on different pages, I'm sure many of us would still like to see your mammoth .emacs! -- DamienElmes

: Gosh where would I put it? :-) I'm working on a page to describe how
I go about splitting up a large .emacs file so that it loads quickly -- KahlilHodgson
----CategoryHomepage




