The Koutliner is part of GNU [[Hyperbole]].  It is a multi-level,
autonumbered, hypertextual outliner implemented as an Emacs major
mode.  Its outlining capabilities are much more advanced and visual
than [[OrgMode]] but Org Mode has much broader output formatting
and structured document capabilities.


The Koutliner (pronounced Kay-outliner) is an advanced outliner with
multi-level autonumbering, e.g. 1b3
or 1.2.3, and permanent ids attached to each outline node for
use as hypertext link anchors, per node properties and flexible
view specifications that can be embedded within links or used
interactively.

It produces structured, autonumbered documents composed of hierarchies of
cells.  Each "cell" has two identifiers, a "relative identifier"
indicating its present position within the outline and a "permanent
identifier" called an "idstamp", suitable for use within hyperlink
references to the cell.  The idstamp is typically not displayed but is
available when needed.

Cells also store their time of creation and the user who created the
cell.  User-defined attributes may also be added to cells.

Hyperbole includes the (##EXAMPLE.kotl##) file, a Koutline that demonstrates
usage of the major Koutliner features.  You can test out the viewing,
editing and motion commands with this file since a personal copy is made
when you use it.

As you create, delete, promote or demote cells within the outline, the labels
preceding the contents of each cell automatically update to reflect the new
structure.  These labels are also known as "autonumbers" and as "relative ids"
because they change as the structure changes.

The outline structure is shown by these labels and by the indentation
of each outline level.  Normally, each deeper level is indented another
three characters, to reflect the nesting.

The default autonumbers are called "alphanumeric labels" because they
alternate between using numbers and letters to distinguish each
successive level.  Each alphanumeric label uniquely identifies a cell's
position in an outline, so that there is no need to scan back to prior
cells to see what the current section number of an outline is.  This is
similar to a legal numbering scheme but without all the period
characters between level numbers.  As an example, 1b3 is equivalent to a
legal label of 1.2.3.  Both refer to the 3rd cell at level 3, below the
2nd child of the first cell at level 1.  Said another way, this is the
3rd child of the 1st cell's 2nd child.  In other words, it is easier to
visualize hierarchies than to talk about them.

Alphanumeric labels are the default because they are shorter and
easier to read aloud than equivalent legal ones.  They also simplify
distinguishing between even and odd level labels because of the
alternating character set.

Idstamps (permanent ids) are also associated with each cell.  They maintain
hyperlinks as cells are reordered within a koutline.  Idstamps may be displayed
in place of the outline level relative ids.

An idstamp counter for each outline starts at 0 and is incremented by
one each time a cell is added to the outline.  This idstamp stays with
the cell no matter where it is moved within the outline.  If the cell is
deleted, its idstamp is not reused.

The 0 idstamp is always assigned to the root node of the entire
outline.  This node is never visible within the outline, but is used so
that the outline may be treated as a single tree when needed.  Idstamps
always begin with a 0, as in 012, to distinguish them from relative ids.

[new]
This has some neat features that I have not seen elsewhere such as auto-numbering.  It has been around many years. (AllOut also does auto-numbering but likely only single level numbering, not multi-level as in legal outlines, nor does it have permanent hyperlinkable ids for each node).

----
CategoryOutline CategoryHypermedia
