Hey. I am Lukasz Stafiniak.

This was written looong ago and then my life took a different turn. But the ideas seem worthy enough not to delete them.

Under the licentia poetica:

Calc is just Calc. You use Calc for math. You need two things for
doing Math - the brain, and the Calc. Math was discovered only after
discovering writing. You can do Math just with your mind (that's a
good exercise), but you need books to learn from, and you need to
write down your ideas to make place for new ones. Then you can go back
and forth, with no worry of forgetting, you try different
manipulations and watch how they help your understanding. In the old
brave times mathematicians and physicists used pen to do that. Would
you imagine? Nowadays, we, common people, can do math with Calc.

The idea is to make Calc the math buffer of Emacs. It would be a
formula editor and manipulator, controlling the power of the many
mathematics systems, interacting with your source code, in any
language. With such a math-board, different systems could be bridged
to work together, for the best cross-use of their features and
libraries. And, first of all, it should be a convenient editing tool,
in the broad sense.

The idea of drag & drop comes from proof assistants, I think. (For
example, Coq's interface, PCoq, and Proof General, Emacs' generic
interface for proof assistants.) Some ideas are described in the paper
"Proof by Pointing" by Yves Bertot, Gilles Kahn and Laurent Thery (the
paper can be found at INRIA webpages
 http://www-sop.inria.fr/croap/ctcoq/help/pbp.html ).

You can contact me at: lukstafi at gmail dot com

I hope to write a package independent of Calc (but it's all yours, Calc)
for Lexing-Parsing-Pretty Printing, e. g. lp^3 (or Languages Per Free)
so that it can be used for other purposes than Calc as well.

I've started the work on lp3. Done: the overall structure for stand-alone lp3. In future I plan to make it a Semantic satellite and perhaps implement 2D general parsing. (sorry for delays)

: Welcome to the wiki! -- PierreGaston
----
CategoryHomepage
