I'm Mark T. Kennedy, an Executive Director in the Fixed Income Technology Group in the retail 
division of Morgan Stanley.

I use Emacs and, in a sense, I use TecoEmacs too.

I've been using Emacs since 1979 and thus started with a TECO-based
emacs.  I have bound 'teco:command' from Dale Worley's Lisp:teco.el to
'ESC ESC'!  I'm probably the only living user of teco.el :-).  Thanks,
Dale!.  (Check TecoInterpreterInElisp for an Emacs v22-specific bug if
you decide to join me in using it, though).  Sometimes, the terseness
of TECO is preferrable to the keyboard macro facility.

Unfortunately I lost my TECO-based init after an IBM "Death Star" 75G
hard disk crash sometime during the 1990's - sigh.  And after doing
all of that work to switch over to the Ivory loader... :-).

So far, my only contribution to Emacs has been bug reports.  At some
point, I'll probably upload my .emacs as yet another example.

Most of the code I write (aside from forays into elisp) is in perl.
I'm a cperl-mode user (thanks, Ilya).

I used to dump my own emacs binary.  But now between the speed of
commodity desktop hardware and a decent emacsserver/emacsclient
interface (combined with a bash wrapper for 'emacsclient'), I live the
simple life of one big fat init.

I've been blessed with a lot of screen real estate at work, and thus
have a strong interest in session management and configuration.
I've enjoyed looking at and using some of the work of DrewAdams.

I'm looking forward to the benefits of v23's multi-tty support
(simultaneous tty %%*and*%% X11 frames) which, when combined with the
utility program 'screen', will allow for detached emacs servers
(remember the TOPS20 "detach" command, oh TecoEmacs users?).  How long
until Google offers a hosted emacsserver interface?  :-)

I'm also looking forward to the beauty of v23's anti-aliased font
support (pant, pant).

I'm testing fledermaus's wiki.el interface (very nice).

I've been hanging out on #emacs as 'mtkatwork', enjoying the wit and wisdom of many.

I'm still waiting for AlexSchroeder to annoint my newbie page :-).

[new]
I am so sorry for the long delay! I've been busy, life got the better of me, things changed...
And suddenly it's more than three years later and you had to do without a welcome message.
If you're ever in Zürich, I owe you a beer or equivalent beverage at a public place. :) -- AlexSchroeder
[new]
np.  i've been to zurich twice but not in ages.  but if i make it there again, you're on!

----
CategoryHomepage
