A traducir:

Lisp:mysql.el works in conjunction with the mysql cli client. You can run queries from elisp against a mysql database.

    How to use it
    Some functions and macros
    Programming Example
    C patch

How to use it

    First of all, create a connection. In fact, it creates a process. 

    (setq my-mysql (mysql-connect))

    Then use mysql-query function to query a sql statment: 

    (mysql-query sql my-mysql)

If you just query once, use mysql-shell-query instead. It does not create a process, so you needn’t to do some clear up.

    (mysql-shell-query sql &optional db)

If you are sure the query may take some time, you may want the query perform in background. mysql-query-background is just for it.

    (mysql-query-background sql connection &optional func)

The optional parament FUNC is a function to run after query. Two variable may be important for this function: mysql-intrival and mysql-timeout. The former is the delay for mysql-timer to check whether query finished. When query last longer than mysql-timeout, the query will be stopped. So if you want a long timeout, set mysql-timeout before query, and restore it original value in the parament FUNC.
Some functions and macros

    (mysql-table-header table) Extract header from query result TABLE and add column index in it.
    (mysql-col-number field) Get the column index of the field in result. The Global variable mysql-header is used.
    (mysql-col table field) Get the field of the result TABLE. FIELD can be a integer or the column name.
    (mysql-cell row field) Get the content of the row in field FIELD. FIELD can be a integer or the column name.
    (with-mysql-table table &rest body) This macro is for execute code BODY without change the global variable mysql-header.

Programming Example

I use this elisp to write a reference manager Bibus.
C patch

This is unrelated to the above elisp package. Also it likely does not apply anymore and probably should be removed.

This patch gives you access to MySQL from within Emacs. If this patch is available online, please remove the source.
