= Introduction =

A week ago i started working at a Cd-Ripper and Ogg-Encoder Interface
for emacs. The last few days it got usable, so i think oggel.el will
be uploaded at the end of the week.

There seems no good tool in Emacs (except eshell :) to encode a cd
or single tracks to the great ogg-vorbis format.  Although there
are similar tool for mp3s like Monk or 'The Idiot Jukebox' i
decided to write my own major mode for that task as i find it
pretty hard to work through their code and understand it (as both
are very complex and not just ripping tools) and i always wanted
to program my own mode and learn from that.  Because of that you
will find a lot of little (or greater :) bugs and nasty code
here.  Feel free to work through the code and change everything you
want, send me a patch or a bugreport.
To install the code put oggel.el simply in your load-path and write that
piece of code in you .emacs:

 (add-hook 'cdi-mode-hook (lambda ()(require 'oggel)(oggel)))

Now you just type M-x cdi and gets to the tracklistbuffer *cdi*.  You can
mark you favourite tracks with "m" and press "C" to start encoding.  If you
don't mark any track oggel will encode the whole cd for you! Yeah!
The files will be produced with the file name format
artist-album-tracknumber-songtitle.ogg unless you change
oggel-filename-list.  The standard options should work well on all
normal machine configurations (machines like mine).

Oggel is clever about Compilations-CDs, so it tries to figure out who is 
the real artist of the track. In this state that's somehow buggy, as i have
only two Compilations at home to test it. To stop oggel behaving in that way, 
set `oggel-various-artists' to t.  NOTE: Setting `oggel-various-artists' is 
broken in v0.5. 

Oggel bases heavily on the great mode cdi.el from Matt Hodges (CdInterface) for
playing the tracks or produce the tracklist.  In the beginning i just used
cdi.el to save time from programming a interafce to freedb, but as MattHodges
has implemented a track-display, i removed all displaying stuff from oggel.  

Oggel aims to become as customizable and functional as grip or jack!

You can get it them from Lisp:oggel.el and Lisp:cdi.el.gz


= Things to do =

* While hearing a cd you should be able to mark tracks and save your selection for later encoding. Should be very easy: Gets status and if playing put track only on oggel-rip-list but not start encoding. After last track ask for starting or saving list.
* Oggel should create m3u-files
* A lot more customize stuff is needed and hardcoded things have to go! (like filename-creation) I think about a similiar mechanism like in cdi to support different encoders, so that changing encoders would be really easy and you don't have to remember the different switches.

This list gets longer and longer every day as i haven't so much time in the moment for oggel, sorry for that! I will try to squeaze as much time as possible in the next few days, it's very embarrassing to put something not yet really done code on the net and then stop working... :(   
