Lisp:quick-buffer-cycle.el

Since I'm lazy I'm just copying the Commentary section here:

<pre>
;;; Commentary:
;;
;; For a long time (*) I have had the F1 key bound to a command that
;; takes me to the previous buffer. It has been a very simple command
;; and it has served me well. I use this in every editing session more
;; or less.
;;
;; * I think I first got the idea here: https://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/DedicatedKeys
;;
;; Certain days I am repeating the same buffer switching pattern over
;; and over again. I switch to buffer A, then B, then C, and then A
;; again (or whatever). Those days, my convenient F1 binding does not
;; work for me and I have to use some sort of classic "buffer
;; selector" (sometimes I use the standard one in Emacs, but often I
;; use Anything (precursor to Helm)), which of course works but is
;; slower/boring.
;;
;; This hack is my attempt to solve it. The idea is that, in a given
;; scenario, I will quickly learn that I first press F1 once, to
;; switch to buffer A and do some work there. Then I press the key
;; twice to switch to buffer C and work there, then press twice again
;; to switch to buffer B, and so on. In my use cases, probably I will
;; seldom press the key more than twice, but we'll see about that.
;;
;; Before I wrote this hack I made an attempt to find if there were a
;; package like this already, but could not find one. Turns out I was
;; wrong (perhaps I did not want to find it, it is fun to reinvent the
;; wheel afterall...), but I learned this after developing this
;; one... At any rate, now it's done and I will try to use it to see
;; if I like it. Preliminary results shows that I will...
;;
;; About the approach using a timer:
;;
;; At first I tried an approach where I measured the time between each
;; call to the "switch" command. Long story short I could not get it
;; work the way I wanted to (it now seems others have succeeded and at
;; least one of those solution seems to be quite complex, which is
;; perhaps why I did not succeed) and got the idea that a timer would
;; be the solution - simply wait with switching buffers until the user
;; has stopped "cycling".
;;
;; The solution is very simple, but it has one major drawback,
;; especially for the impatient: you can never switch to a buffer more
;; quickly than what the timer delay is set to (0.4 seconds by
;; default). You can tweak the timer value to whatever suits you. If
;; you have a fast computer and if you are a fast typist, you should
;; certainly try with 0.3 or even 0.2. If you can live with this
;; delay, this simple hack will probably work well for you.
;;
;; Usage:
;;
;; Bind `quick-buffer-cycle' to a convenient key. I prefer the F1 key:
;;
;; (global-set-key [f1] 'quick-buffer-cycle)
;;
;; Now, the most common scenario (for me) is that I want to switch to
;; the previous buffer. To do that, press the key once, and wait (the
;; default time to wait is 0.4 seconds). The previous buffer will be
;; selected.
;;
;; If you know "where" in the buffer stack/list the buffer is that you
;; want to go to, quickly press the key as many times is needed to
;; select that buffer (let's say two times, if you know the buffer you
;; want is the one previous to the previous one). Here, "quickly"
;; means to press the key with a maximum delay of
;; `quick-buffer-cycle-timeout' (default 0.4 seconds).
;;
;; To make it easier to select the correct buffer, when you pressed
;; the key the wrong number of times, there is a hint in the echo area
;; that shows how many key presses are needed to get to a certain
;; buffer after a buffer have been switched to. By default, the number
;; of buffers to show in the hint is 4 but this can be customized by
;; setting `quick-buffer-cycle-hint-limit' to the number of buffers to
;; be shown.
</pre>

Yeah, that's it...

Enjoy!
----
CategoryBufferSwitching

