/low-resource writer's software for screenplays and fiction/

ruby2shoes combines Emacs and Python to create a sophisticated writing environment for screenplay and fiction writers. Emacs' modes are used to create .sp or .fc files. Spirit, a Python application, then archives these files, converts them to text, HTML or LaTeX, or prints them in a variety of ways.
Finally, ruby2web creates a web site of your work.

Project homepage:

* http://pypi.python.org/pypi/ruby2shoes

There are two modes in ruby2shoes, *fiction.el* and *screenplay.el*.

Here are the comment sections of the mode files so you can see what they do.

== fiction.el ==

Major mode for writing novels, children's stories, and other fiction.
Creates .fc files which are translated into LaTeX files by an external
python script -ruby2latex.py-. 

Begin with M-1, the fiction skeleton.  Skeletons repeat a prompt until
they get an empty string - it's an Emacs thing.  Mode expects ONE-LINE
title and chapter name.  But use the skeleton author-prompt for multiple
authors and the contact-info-prompt for address, phone and email lines
in the address paragraph of the title page.

It is derived from outline.el which is derived from text.el. So many
benefits of those modes remain in the keymap. Chapters, sections, and
subsections are first-level outline elements and show their titles.  So
you can use single-* lines to outline your work. The second character of
these lines MUST be a space: `* outline stuff'. Mode also ignores lines
beginning with pound-sign so that you can make notes within the
script. M-n creates a new note-line.

Mode needs to identify normal paragraphs; use M-Return to begin them.
The only emphasis currently is underlining. To underline a word, begin
it with an underbar: this underlined is _this. Make sure to use M-0 for
forcing a line-break in verse and such and M-9 for forcing a new page.

If the mode becomes sluggish, as it will with novels over half a meg, 
turn off the global font lock in Emac's Edit menu.  The sluggishness comes
from the way Emacs colors your fonts and turning off the color returns you
to normal, lightning-like speed.

== screenplay.el ==

Major mode for writing industry-standard Hollywood spec-scripts.
Creates .sp files which are translated into LaTeX files by an external
python script -ruby2latex.py-. The resulting screenplays are
identical in format and appearance to the products of ScriptThing,
FinalDraft, and other professional scriptwriting software.

The .sp files can be either *movie* or *tv* (30 or 60 minute) scripts.
The Play menu skeletons determine this, marking the first line of the
file with the type for the benefit of the conversion script. Skeletons
repeat a prompt until they get an empty string - it's an Emacs thing.
Mode expects ONE-LINE title, series, and episode.  But use the skeleton
author-prompt for multiple authors and the contact-info-prompt for
address, phone and email lines in the address paragraph of the title
page.

Mode is WYSISWYG [S for sort-of] and uses auto-fill-mode to maintain
margins. It is derived from outline.el which is derived from text.el. So
many benefits of those modes remain in the keymap. Scenes --scene, int.,
ext.-- are second-level outline elements. Mode ignores lines beginning
in asterisks that have more than one token. So you can use single-*
lines to outline your play. Mode also ignores lines beginning with # so
that you can make notes within the script. M-n creates a new note-line.

Mode tracks the last two speakers and M-Return alternates them. It also
tracks the last exterior and last interior location.  Enter a period at
the INT. or EXT. location-prompt to get the last location automatically
--then hit M-0 for the dash-CONTINUOUS.  Cool, no?

The only emphasis in a spec-script is underlining. To underline a word,
begin it with an underbar: this underlined is _this.  LaTeX commands
like \newpage take the form *\command on a line by themselves.  The
backslash in the second position is the key.
