A '''[::text property]''' is a property attached to characters in a [[buffer]] or a string. The text properties attached to a character make up a [[property list]].  Each property in the list has a name and a value.

As an example, InvisibleText uses the property `invisible'. If a non-`nil' `invisible' property
is attached to a character, that character is invisible.

In a buffer without font-lock, evaluate the following:

    (let ((s "Alex"))
      (put-text-property 0 (length s) 'face 'bold s)
      (insert s))

This should insert a bold "Alex" into the buffer. If it doesn't seem to work, try it in fundamental-mode, as some major modes will override the face.

To change the face of text in a buffer with font-lock enabled, set the property 'font-lock-face rather than 'face. Many major modes use font-lock; this can create confusion as some documentation and examples use the 'face property - as in the example setting 'face 'bold above - but setting the 'face text property in a fontified buffer may not appear to do anything. The reason is that font lock is looking for 'font-lock-face instead.

Text-properties exist in GNU Emacs.  XEmacs provides a compatibility layer
that translates TextProperties to XEmacsExtents.

Text-properties affect text in strings and buffers.  When text is
killed in one buffer and yanked in another buffer, the text-properties
stick with it.

Text-properties start between characters and end between characters.
Text-properties affect a range of characters.  If a text-property is
attached to a range of characters, it is shared.  The effect is the
same as if every single character had it's own copy of the same
property-list.

This may lead to a problem if you want to include the first character
into the range.  The solution is to use front-sticky property like this
(as explained by MilesBader on the newsgroup):

      (put-text-property 1 2 'front-sticky t)
      (put-text-property 1 2 'read-only t)

See also: EmacsOverlays, the answer to XEmacsExtents.


----
CategoryGlossary
